# Chapter 1: Introduction

Within modern society, many media devices exist. Having a responsive software product on any device would benefit many industries, such as individualising three-dimensional (3D) printed products, medical visualisations representing a diagnosis in a 3D environment, and even games to support a more extensive player base.

This thesis focuses on the 3D printing industry, also referred to as the Additive Manufacturing (AM) industry. Using AM, we can realise complex structures easier, which might be hard to accomplish with traditional methods. One of the complex structures a 3D printer can print is a lattice structure. Lattice structures are a geometrical arrangement of crisscrossed patterns. However, visualisations of lattice structures using computer graphics can become hard to render on sub-optimal hardware. Depending on the size of the lattice structure, polycount can reach millions of triangles which is not feasible to visualise optimally on consumer hardware in real-time.

In this paper, we propose a solution for developers to create a 3D renderer that uses distance fields to visualise complex structures, including but not limited to lattice structures on desktops, laptops, phones, and tablets regardless of Operating System (OS). Our target platform will be the largest open platform, namely the web, focusing on chromium browsers. However, we will measure our theory on a desktop for academic purposes. Testing will become a lot easier with a desktop application as well as it will give us the ability to try out different techniques that would not be possible on the web. Building our solution on a desktop computer will provide us with a clear overview of the bottlenecks and what we will have to improve or create for the web-based applications and allow us to compare any results to existing solutions. 

When we talk about distance fields, we can state the following: A distance field is a scalar field that specifies the minimum distance to a shape. A typical application within distance fields is to make use of a Signed Distance Field (SDF), where the sign will indicate whether we are outside (positive sign), inside (negative sign), or on the surface of a shape (distance will be 0). Distance fields have shown promising results in visualising high fidelity geometry without the cost of uploading the required geometric data to the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). An added benefit of distance fields is that they can perform Boolean operations more efficiently. A Boolean operation within the context of a distance field is a combination that includes or excludes specific geometry between two shapes. However, one must be wary as those operations do not always produce a valid distance field, but just a lower bound to the actual distance of the resulting surface.

We argue that an application’s performance will improve by using distance fields as a method of choice to visualise these complex structures over the traditional rasterisation approach. This improved performance will remove the barrier of having high-end hardware and allow the end-user to interact with the application. 
